- I have an on again, off again, relationship with blogging.  Back when my kids were little I had a blog where I would post photos and funny stories about my experiences.  I feel like I should have kept with it, I could have been an influencer, and I would have been on the ground floor back then.
- But anyway, another reason people blog is to provide technical information to the internet.  People start their own projects on github, or begin open source projects, or just start posting articles about things that interest them and become experts in their field.  But another portion of that is a commitment device.  If you are squirreled away in your bedroom hacking all weekend on a project, whether or not it is successful, no one will know.  But if you post about it it becomes real. Your work takes on an external life of its own and is out there for the world to see.

- Some times it is enough to blog about what you are doing, just to make it real for yourself, and to make it something you can commit to.  As if the 12 people in the world who might read this article would be disappointed if I do not carry out the next steps in my plan.  More on my plan later.  Let me give some background on where I am now. 

- I have been doing my job for about 30 years now, plus or minus, and I am pretty happy where I am right now.  But I have a couple of things on the horizon that cause me some worry.  One, I am almost old enough to retire, but I do not think that I am ready to retire yet. At the same time the job market has had a huge contraction and new jobs are becoming scarce, especially ones that allow people to work remotely.  
- 
- AI is another troubling trend.  Big technical firms are laying off developers in droves, based on the notion that AI increases productivity.  Why they just don’t keep people around and instead use that productivity to create new, amazing software, is beyond me.  Maybe its uncertainty about just how advanced these large language models are going to become. 
- 
- Now, one of the latest models, Mythos, from Anthropic, is sort of a super powerful hacking bot, that can hack its way into a large number of existing systems with ridiculous ease.  The NSA has already bought into its talens and whatever it is doing is perhaps shrouded in secrecy.
- 
- This brings me to my next point.   The AI breakthrough has a huge potential to affect cybersecurity.  While some of this is going to come down to a spy versus spy confrontation, where whoever can afford the most powerful bots can hack into other systems or keep themselves from being hacked, I think there is a huge number of aged systems that will not have the advantage of AI for protection, and there is the opportunity.
- 
- While AI has shown it can replace programmers, and content creators, it has not shown that it can replace the people who are responsible for keeping their systems safe.  Cybersecurity, the blanket term for these folks, is growing exponentially.
- 
- So I am going to attempt to make a late in the game pivot into Cybersecurity, starting with getting a bunch of certifications and then getting a masters degree from Western Governors University. Again more on that later, but this is just my manifesto.  :)
